doc(kb): storage network migratable RWX workload restart (#1144)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-storage-network-migratable-rwx-workload-restart.md

---
title: "Troubleshooting: Storage Network CSI Plugin Restart Triggers Unintended Restart of RWX Migratable Volume Workload"
authors:
- "Chin-Ya Huang"
draft: false
date: 2025-06-30
versions:
- "v1.7.x"
- "v1.8.0-v1.8.2"
- "v1.9.0"
categories:
- "storage network"
- "rwx volume"
---

> ## Applicable versions
> 
> * All Longhorn v1.7.x versions
> * Longhorn v1.8.x that are < v1.8.3
> * Longhorn v1.9.0
> 
> ## Symptoms
> 
> When both the storage network and the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` settings are enabled, restarting the CSI plugin pod causes workload using a **migratable RWX volume** to restart.
> 
> ## Root Cause
> 
> This issue is caused by a bug in the storage network support for RWX volumes. Longhorn RWX volumes are not true NFS-based RWX volumes, so restarting the CSI plugin should not trigger a workload restart.
> 
> #### Workaround
> 
> The bug has been fixed in Longhorn version >= v1.8.3 and > v1.9.1.
> 
> If you are using an affected version, consider the following workarounds:
> 
> 1. Disable the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` setting to fall back to use the cluster network for all RWX volumes.
> 1. Disable the `auto-delete-pod-when-volume-detached-unexpectedly` setting.
>     > **Warning**
>     > Be sure to review the [limitation](../../docs/1.9.0/advanced-resources/deploy/storage-network/#limitation) of this approach before applying it.
> 
> ## Related information
> 
> - Related Longhorn issue: https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Applicable Versions

- All Longhorn v1.7.x versions  
- Longhorn v1.8.x versions **prior to** v1.8.3  
- Longhorn v1.9.0

## Symptoms

When both the storage network and the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` setting are enabled, restarting the CSI plugin pod causes workloads using **migratable RWX volumes** to restart unexpectedly.

## Root Cause

This issue is due to a bug in the storage network support for RWX volumes. Since Longhorn RWX volumes are not true NFS-based volumes, restarting the CSI plugin should **not** trigger a workload restart. However, the bug incorrectly causes the volume to appear detached, leading to the workload being restarted.

## Workaround

This bug is resolved in:

- **Longhorn v1.8.3 and later**
- **Longhorn v1.9.2 and later**

If you are using an affected version, consider the following workarounds:

1. **Disable** the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` setting to revert RWX volumes to use the cluster network.
2. **Disable** the `auto-delete-pod-when-volume-detached-unexpectedly` setting.  
   >  **Warning**: Be sure to review the [limitations](../../docs/1.9.0/advanced-resources/deploy/storage-network/#limitation) of this approach before applying it.

## Related Information

- GitHub Issue: [#11158](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158)
```

Author: @sushant-suse I find it difficult to identify your suggested changes, as almost the entire document is highlighted. Consider highlighting only the specific lines where you're suggested to change.

PTAL to see if the updated PR addressed all your suggestions.

Reviewer: > @sushant-suse I find it a bit difficult to identify your suggested changes, as almost the entire document is highlighted. Consider breaking the highlighting suggestions into smaller chunks.
> 
> PTAL to see if the updated PR addressed all your suggestions. Thank you!

Thanks for the feedback @c3y1huang. I suggested the full document mainly because there were multiple small suggestions spread across lines, and I felt reviewing it in context would be clearer. But I totally understand how that made it harder to track the suggestions. I will make sure to break suggestions into smaller chunks next time.

- "v1.9.0"
categories:
- "storage network"
- "rwx volume"
---

## Applicable versions

* All Longhorn v1.7.x versions
* Longhorn v1.8.x versions **prior to** v1.8.3
* Longhorn v1.9.0

## Symptoms

When both the storage network and the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` setting are enabled, restarting the CSI plugin pod causes workloads using **migratable RWX volumes** to restart unexpectedly.

## Root Cause

This issue is due to a bug in the storage network support for RWX volumes. Since Longhorn RWX volumes are not true NFS-based volumes, restarting the CSI plugin should **not** trigger a workload restart.

#### Workaround

This bug is resolved in:
- **Longhorn v1.8.3 and later**
- **Longhorn v1.9.2 and later**

If you are using an affected version, consider the following workarounds:

1. **Disable** the `storage-network-for-rwx-volume-enabled` setting to revert RWX volumes to use the cluster network.
1. **Disable** the `auto-delete-pod-when-volume-detached-unexpectedly` setting.
    > **Warning**
    > Be sure to review the [limitation](../../docs/1.9.0/advanced-resources/deploy/storage-network/#limitation) of this approach before applying it.

## Related information

> - GitHub Issue: https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GitHub Issue: [#1158](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11158)
```
